Hi there, I'm Mike Ross. I'm part of the team here at Case Coach and I'm a former consultant and interviewer from McKenzie. I'm going to be doing some case interview videos and these are going to be replications of cases that look a lot like the types of cases that you will see in interviews for consulting firms around the world. Throughout the interviews, I'll be interjecting some comments or thoughts as we go. Things that went really well and other things that can be improved. enjoy the videos. Welcome to the firm. Thank you. Thank you for having me. All right, so uh we're just going to start off with the case. Why don't I just launch into the the prompt? Yeah, absolutely. So, your client in this case is the Canadian Wildlife Federation, otherwise known as the CWF. This is a government affiliated nonprofit organization which aims to educate Canadians about wildlife and promote responsible human actions and conservation. They've contacted your firm to help them figure out why one particular endangered species population, the swift fox, has been declining dramatically and what they can do to stop it from declining any further. Interesting. That's too bad for the swift fox. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like a pretty dramatic decline in our population. Oh, yeah. Well, that's that's really too bad. So, my question for you, Scott, is how would you think about solving this problem? Great. Um before before we dive too far into how we want to think about solving this, I just want to make sure I've captured everything and clarify a couple points before before we go too much further. Of course. So, as I heard it, I'm I'm here today dealing with the Canadian Wildlife Federation and they've been struggling with a declining population of the swift fox and really we're just here to answer what's been causing this decline in the swift fox population. That's right. Okay, great. Um, so just to set a bit more context, talking about the swift foxes, how how long has this decline been going on and how much have or how much the population has actually um been lost? Yeah. No, it's a fair question. So, actually, it looks like historically the populations have been stable up until the last year. So, it's really a very recent decline. Oh, wow. Interesting. Um, that's very interesting. Do we have any numbers as to how much has this declined or anything like that? So, what I've got is that uh we have 5,000 today. Okay. And a year ago is 6,000. Oh, wow. Okay. That's a pretty meaningful decline. Yeah. 15 17%. Um let's talk about objectives a little bit before we get too far into this as well. Yep. Is there any uh sort of target level they're wanting to get the population back to or time window we're looking to achieve this in? I mean, this is less about targets of sort of what are we going to achieve and more about let's just do what we can to address this decline, right? So, I don't think they have a target number in mind. Okay. But as soon as possible, let's understand what's going on and then we can move to figuring out how to address it. Okay. Okay. So, this is more of a a diagnostic exercise than a let's get to a real Exactly. Okay. Great. Um, I think I've got all I need for right now. Do you mind if I just take a a quick minute here and structure out my thoughts? Perfect. Please do. How we doing, Scott? Doing just great. So, let me share with you how I'm thinking about this. So, the way I see it is that in order to answer what's been causing this decline in fox population, it's a matter of a formula of three key things. Births, deaths, and what I'm calling departures. Okay. So within births, I really just want to look at how many foxes are being born yeartoear um and how has that changed? Has there been a decline in the number of foxes being born every year or has that been stable? Mhm. And then the other side of it is the deaths. So this is a subtraction from the population. Um and this I'd really look at it in in three categories. So deaths, natural deaths, so those associated with just age and other factors like that. Uh disease related, which I mean it's self-explanatory. How many deaths are related to disease and has there been a change in that in the last year or so? Y and the final death related uh death bucket would be hunting. So sort of the human the human elements of course how many foxes are being hunted every year if that's a factor at all. My sense is that they're endangered. So that's probably not an issue, but they certainly are. Yeah. Um and then the last one is departures. So thinking about maybe humans have forced them out of their natural habitat and have forced them somewhere else. They're not necessarily declining in total numbers. they're just declining in the region that we're looking at. So, it's more in our counting of the ones that are around rather than whe they're actually declining in terms of deaths or not being born as much. Exactly. Um, that seems like a pretty complete list. Scott, is there anything in particular in that that you would focus on? Yeah. So, for me, the the place I would want to start actually is looking at deaths. My my thinking here is around the disease or the hunting component. I mean, hunting maybe less so, but I think I want to focus first on disease, especially given the time frame of this being just one year. Mhm. and try to understand if there's been some new disease that's cropped up or any other factor that's caused an uptick in the number of deaths. All right. So, let's talk a little bit about how Scott did right there. He just shared his initial structure and I think he did a great job. First, he did a great job starting with clarifying questions. He didn't spend too long reiterating what the case prompt was or what the brief of the question was. He though he checked it to make sure that he had the right target. He wanted to make sure that he was aligned and he diagnosed the root cause before moving towards solutions. Got me to interview, sorry, got me to agree with his approach and then went into it. Right? And that's exactly what you want to do, right? That first beginning part of the case, right? Make sure you're on the right path. Don't spend too much time there and then launch into it. Yes, he could have asked a couple more questions about the swift fox. Does it have an unusual habitat or characteristics? Is it an endangered species? since it's the focus of this case, maybe a little bit more information on it could have been useful, right? It's just a madeup thing. And so there may be some other interesting nuggets there that he could have dug in a little bit on, but this is not to say that it wasn't a great start. Once he got into his structure, I thought he did a very good job. The structure is clearly me, right? It's an equation that gets us very clearly to population growth. Birth minus deaths minus net migration. He's focused on the right metric. He's not just making up some framework for no particular reason. It's very targeted to what it is we're trying to achieve. And he provided great insight there around hunting and migration. Okay, perfect. Let's jump into it. Let's do it. Okay, so let's talk first about the diseases. So in the past year or two years, has there been any meaningful disease that's appeared in the swift fox population that something we should know about? You know, the one thing that I see is that there was this deadly gastrointestinal disease that affected a bunch of forests of Canada, including the habitat of the swift fox. Oh, interesting. Now, we don't have any data or any information as to whether or not that's affecting the swift fox in particular. Okay. But that type of animal seems like it's been suffering from this thing. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. Um, well, you mentioned that we didn't have any specific data pertaining to that. So, I'll just leave it there as sort of a placeholder, something interesting to keep in mind. Mhm. Um so still along the the the deaths, the increase in deaths. Um the other factor is the natural deaths. And I'm just curious about the the life expectancy of Fox and if there's been any meaningful change in that in the recent history. You know, from what we see, we don't really see any real difference in life expectancy in terms of what has changed over the last little while. Not really. No. Okay. So, no real change. So with that in mind, it it feels to me a little bit like uh deaths is not the avenue that we're, you know, find too much useful information on, at least at this point. Uh so I think it's time to maybe pivot to another piece of this, which is talking about the number of births every year. So let's talk about births for a little bit if that's okay with you. So, I'm curious, how many how many foxes or excuse me, how many foxes are born every year or how many um pups can be born to a female in their lifetime? Uh, that's a good question. Let me see what the facts have here. So, the way that they measure these are in litters. Okay, so the average fox litter is one and a half foxes. Okay. And that's a once yearly thing. Once yearly. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. And that's um per female obviously. Um that seems like a lot of foxes. My goodness. Um okay. So that gives us a sense of how many foxes can potentially be born. And I guess the the way to sort of quantify that is to think about how many females there are in this population given that another ones can that can be born. So my assumption is that of this 5,000 population that half are females. Is that a is that a fair assumption or Yeah, that's fair. Although we have actually some data that I can show you. Oh, okay. Let me show you a couple of exhibits. Okay. And I'd love to hear what you have to say or what you see there. Oh, interesting. Okay. Do you mind if I just take a quick second just to Sure. Don't take too long because I'd like to get kind of your first impressions early on. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. So what I what I'm seeing here is that uh basically the p the fox population is broken into four regions split by this highway. Um but the the populations aren't split equally and it seems like there's actually a very unbalanced u gender well there's the genders are not balanced which could lead to fewer births. Uh and the other piece that I'm noticing is the instance the percentage of population that's affected by disease. Some of them are quite meaningful. However, I at first glance, I don't see a real correlation with the male, female, or even the size of the population. Um, but this is still probably a meaningful number in terms of how many foxes are being dying too young. Yeah. Um, but what this is really telling me at first is there's not enough uh there aren't enough pairs or mating pairs to be able to potentially replace all the foxes that need to be replaced. Yep. Um, and also the the split in population by this highway might mean that migration between to help find a mate is also um not possible because they would have to cross a highway. Yeah, there seem to be some pretty big skews between the female and male population. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. You know, just at first glance without diving into too much detail, it seems like uh there's almost like a 6040 or 6535 type split between females versus males, which quite interesting. What do you think might be causing that? That's interesting. You know, I Why would there be more females than males? Um, my instinct would be to say that it's sort of caused by one of two things. One being this disease is affecting females more, excuse me, affecting males more than it is females. And the other would be some other human related factor like females or excuse me males are being hunted for some other specific reason or more a prey of some other animal. So some other imbalance there. However, the my first hypothesis about the diseases doesn't seem to hold much merit given the correlation between the percentage of females and percent of population affected by disease. Doesn't quite Yeah. There doesn't seem to be a clear line. Yeah. Um, so my hunch is more along the lines of some sort of human interference. Um, but that's just what would affect the the population skew. And I think it's it's important that we tie this back to what we were initially trying to figure out is what's been causing this decline. Mhm. Um, so where I'd really want to take this next, I think, is to look at how many, going back to my initial structure here, thinking about how many babies are born every year minus how many are dying by natural causes and disease, which looks impactful. And then I can probably remove this departure and then from this we can probably get a good estimate as to how much we expect our population to change in the next year or the the years following. Yep. Does that make sense to you? Sure. Yeah. And actually, I mean, this lines up pretty well with what the client's interested in knowing. Okay, great. All right, so me again, just to interrupt, let's talk a little bit about judgment and insights, right? So, he's progressing through the case. I'm giving him lots of leeway to choose where to focus, and he's doing a great job of leading the way, right? That intervieweled approach. When we did exhibits, right, I shared these with Scott. He did a very good job of drawing the insights out of them. Commented on what he saw high level without getting lost in the details. and then focused only on the aspects that could help him solve the case. Right? There's sometimes quite a lot of noise around. Scott was very good at targeting into the things that were really, really important. Using this, he came up with a few hypotheses that suggested he would quantify their impact in the next step. So, he's had he kind of said, "Oh, here's a couple of hypothesis. We're going to get to quantification. He's driving me through the case rather than forcing me to drive him through the case." Overall, I think he's doing a great job. And so what they've asked is that they said, you know, they're intrigued by what it is you're finding in these exhibits and they're really curious how impactful both the disease and gender disparity have been on the overall population. Most specifically, what they're interested in knowing is how much would you expect the population to decline based on these two issues in the next year? Okay. So basically the way I'm thinking about this is taking it right back to my initial structure, but quantifying it. So starting first with the number of bursts that we'd see every year minus the number of deaths by natural end disease. Yep. So within bursts, the way I'm thinking about it is looking at how many mating pairs can possibly there possibly can exist, which is based on the fraction of the population and I'll call it the the limiting gender. So whichever one has a smaller percentage. Um and then going back to the how many uh cubs they can have in a single litter. Mhm. Um so that'll give us the number of births we can expect a year. And then to the death side, it's basically just a sum of how many natural deaths we would expect, which is based on their life expectancy. Um and then the disease, which is again based on the life expectancy by those infected. Um so maybe let's start first with births. And there's a couple pieces of information that I'm going to ask you for before we we start calculating things. So, um, you mentioned before that the each female fox can expect to have one and a half cubs or one and a half pups per per year. Yeah. I don't know what the terminology is, but yes, you're right. That's an So, mating season is once a year. Okay. Right. But pairs only mate once every 5 years. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. So, that's one and a half pups every 5 years. That's right. Interesting. Okay. And a swift fox will choose like one made for life. really. Okay. Okay. That's that's important as well. And their life expectancy is 10 years. Okay. Okay. So, all this stuff will be extremely helpful to to help me calculate this. But actually, the first thing I need to do is to figure out how many mating pairs there are every year. So, I'm going to go back to this table and start putting some numbers to it. Before we jump into that, just thinking back to your original structure. Yeah. You had this migration question there. Yeah. Where are you on that? What is your thinking? Well, my thinking is that this uh just looking at this exhibit here, migration might be a lot more limited given the the highway splitting these two groups. Yep. Um but you're right. That's a good that's a good push that maybe it's something that we're missing here. Is is let's bring that back into this equation and see if it's impactful. No, I think it's I mean I actually think it's fair for you to assume that there's a zero there, right? I just want to make sure that we're not losing that in the equation because maybe we'll come across some facts, but based on what we understand so far, there's nothing to worry about migration. Great. Great. So, I'm going to leave that out of the formula and we'll keep going on with this. So, let's let's first figure out how many mating pairs there. So, we know that group A, B, C, D. Group A has quarter of the population. Our population is 5,000. That's right. Right. So, our population uh total population there is 1250. And then we care about the limiting the limiting population for mating pairs, which is 10% of the males, which means we can only have 125 mating pairs every year. Right. Oh, I see what you're doing. Yes, that makes a lot of sense. Okay, great. Um, so let me just sum these all up and we'll keep going. So the next population is group B, eighth of our population. So that's going to be 625. Is that right? Sorry, let me just take a second here. 625 is correct. And our limiting population again is the male. 30% of this. So that's about 100 and I'll call it 190. Is that okay with you if I write? Yeah, that's fine. Okay. You can even go 200. It works for me. Sure. Let's do that. Make my life a little bit easier. Oh, okay. Uh the next population is 38. Three of this. So 1875 and well population is evenly split. So we can have half that number eight pairs. So that's uh 937. So let's uh let's call 940. Sure. And our last group, group D, another quarter. So 1250 and our limiting population is the males again. Um which brings us to four times that is 500. Mhm. So this is the total number of mating pairs that we have per year. And we can tie this back into our formula to get how many pups that would be in a single year. So 125 200 so 325 8 plus 500 be 825 plus another 940 is 1765. So that's how many mating pairs we can have in a year. And let's bring it back to our original format here. take another page because it's getting a little messy. So, we have 7765 mating pairs. You said that there was one and a half cubs per pair. Mhm. And they mate once every 5 years. So, this is over five, right? Right. So, um let me make my life a little bit easier here and I'll call it 1765 divided by times.3. Excuse me. Why are you doing that? Just 1.5 / 5. Perfect. Okay. Okay. Um, and then that just means 30% of this. Do you mind if I round this to 1,800? Yeah, that's fine. So that's 180 * 3, which is 300 plus another 240. So 540. So that's how many pups we can expect to be born every year. Mhm. Okay. So that's one side of our equation. Now let's get the other side, which is deaths. So the first piece we talked about was natural, and you gave me a piece of information saying that life expectancy was 10 years, which is perfect. So, we know that of our Oh, you know what? I was just about to skip a step here, but I'm I'm realizing that we need to we need to segment out these ones. So, let me go back here and make sure I I separate out those affected by disease. So, let's go back to these percentage here. I'll make this diseased. So, 25% of our quarter, which was 1250. So, a quarter of um 1250 would be about 400, excuse me, 300 15ish. So what are you trying to do now? You're trying to carve out the effect of disease on the birth population. Is that right? No, I'm actually thinking about this from the death perspective. Okay. So my assumption is that those disease can still u mate. Mhm. Um but the the issue here is that those diseased uh have a shorter life expectancy or my guess is that they have a shorter life expectancy which is actually some piece of information that I haven't got from you yet. So I should probably ask you that now. So disease is there what's the impact on their life expectancy or or health kills in a year. A year. Okay. So that's important. So it's a good thing that I was starting to do this because we're going to need this information anyway. So what I'm doing here is figuring out how many are diseased to subtract them out from the whole population because they won't they won't be affected by this 10ear life expectancy. That's right. Like the remainder of the undiseed population. So let me continue on with this. So the next population is group B which is an eighth of 625 and it's 40% are diseased. Um just call it 63 again. So 40 of that is 240 252 say 250 is fine. Okay so 250 are diseased. Group C 1875 10% are diseased makes my life easy call it 188. And the last one is 5% of this 1250 which means 125. So 60 62.5 make that a little rounder when we sum this all up. Let me just make it 62 and it'll make my life easier with Yeah, sure. So this is uh 565 plus another 190 and 6250. So that's 7815 is the number that are diseased. Okay. So that means just from disease alone we're going to be lo losing 850 per year. 815 here. Let me just start this sum here. So, birth test, I'll call this natural and diseased. Mhm. That's good. So, birth we have 540. Yep. Diseased we have 815. Mhm. Which is quite meaningful. Uh and natural we have the remainder of this 5,000 less 815 which is 419, excuse me, 41.85. Mhm. And 10 year life expectancy. Mhm. So that means assuming that it's an even population distribution. That's fair. That we're going to lose about 420 of those every year. So let's bring this all together here. So what we're doing here is just summing the rest of this to see our population change. So 540 bursts less 420 natural deaths brings us to 120 minus another 815 which would be uhus another 120. So that would be 7 695 excuse me 695. Mhm. And that's a negative population decline every year. Yes. So what this is telling me is that on our 5,000 we're losing 695 a year about 700. That's about 14% of our entire population just in a single year. But more importantly is that we're having more disease related deaths than we are births. And actually the births could cover natural deaths if we if disease didn't exist. Right. And we'd actually be recovering a little bit. Right. Right. So what my next steps would be to look at the causes of this disease and if any um cures exist out there that we could look at and start thinking about how we can implement these cures to try and reduce the number of disease. Um but on the other side we could also look at boosting the number of births right because we saw before that there's a gender imbalance. There might be an opportunity to either try and rebalance the population uh between these groups by physically moving them around or potentially introducing other uh box population from uh that are bred outside of this environment just to try and boost the burst number to try and you know maybe grow the population a little quicker. Um yeah, so that's the way I would think about it. Okay, now let's talk about the number stuff, the math stuff. Another top-notch answer from Scott, right? His approach is high level. Calculations are confident and error-free. He's not making any mistakes as he's going. That's fantastic. At the end, and perhaps most important to this, right, in the math, don't forget this. At the end, he shared the far-reaching implications of his answer. He didn't just leave it sit there as a number, but thought about what does this mean for the case? He went way back to the case prompt. What does this mean for the case as a whole? I know you want to hear about improvements and if I'm being picky, here's a couple, right? Scott could have perhaps structured his second level calculations as well as his first and communicated those in advance. For example, explaining how he would have calculated deaths before actually calculating them. He did these as he went, right? He sort of rolled along with it. But sometimes it's useful to give me the equation beforehand so I can see where it is you're going. Perhaps I can correct you or things like this. Scott almost miss, right? He almost forgot to take diseases into account in that calculation. Caught himself, so no harm done. But by explaining it ahead of time, you're more likely to give yourself a chance to catch those mistakes before you make them. But overall, another great answer from Scott. Are there any further analyses you'd want to do? Is there anything more you'd want to look at if you had a little bit more time on the project? I mean, absolutely. Um, the the biggest element is the disease. We talked about it just briefly right now. Um, but all we know about it right now is that it's gastrointestinal. Um, so I'd be really interested to look at if there are other populations that have been affected by this disease and if they were able to eradicate it just to really identify what we could potentially be doing for the foxes. But that's just on one side of it. The other piece is on the burst, which we just talked about in a little bit more detail right now. So I mean there is a lot more analysis I'd like to do on that. Yeah. Um, but yeah, that's where I sort of want to take this next. Maybe there's also like a general benchmarking against swift fox populations in other countries, right? That's a great point. Maybe I don't know what the comparable countries. What comparable countries do you think there would be with swift foxes? Um, I guess we're Canadian Wildlife Federation, so my instinct is to think, you know, an environment that looks the same. Something like the US might have parks with similar swift box populations or maybe some European countries, something like that. Um, but that's just looking directly at swift fox. It might be interesting also to look at populations of other species, maybe similar, maybe not, that were affected by a similar disease, just to see if they were able to correct the situation and if so, how. Just to give us some ideas. Cool. Well, and as you're doing this this analysis, actually the uh turns out that the chairman of the Canadian Wildlife Federation has an upcoming public statement. Oh, wow. I'd like to include a few pieces of insight that you've generated from the work that you've done to update the local communities on the plans to save the swift fox. Okay, great. She's asked you to provide a sort of a 30- secondond synopsis of your key findings. Okay. So, she can share those in her public statement. What would you suggest she say? Okay, great. Well, firstly, we set out just to identify what the cause of this was. Um, and what we found is that it's a combination of too few births and too many deaths related to disease. So my recommendations are two things. First is to investigate the causes of these disease and search for solutions of how to correct it in the long run. And the second is to look at means of increasing the number of births. We saw that births are actually about 250 less than uh the number of disease related deaths. So we'll never be able to recover the population in this in this manner. So my next steps are investigating further the the root causes of these these diseases, potential cures, potential implementation plans of how we could roll out this cure. Um and the second piece would be related to the burst to investigate further um how you can potentially rebalance the the gender imbalance that exists in this environment right now. All right, so Scott just wrapped up the case and overall very very strong all the way through to the end. A couple of little places for improvement here. The good he stated the two main root causes of the population decline and laid out clear ways to address these. Right, he's very much focused on the answer to the case. In terms of improvement, well, he missed the sharing that the swift fox population is expected to decline a further 14% this year, which was his top finding, and perhaps missed the insight about the gender imbalance until the end of his conclusion, right? Could have presented that a little bit earlier on. These are tweaks. They're not huge things at the end of a very strong case. Not a big deal. Scott throughout stands out here in terms of his case leadership. He had a clear view throughout about how to solve the problem. I felt in good hands. I felt that he had a command of the interview. He connected every insight back up to the question at hand, right? Back up to the overall brief of the case. He had specific suggestions about next steps and really one of the best that I've ever seen in terms of that dimension, in terms of that kind of taking it to the not just what's happening, but what should we do about it level. His presence and communication are both excellent. Scott is articulate and concise. He understands the power of synthesis. He's using the right words to express what he wants to say efficiently as he goes through. He's confident and engaging. He's not smiling too much, but he's clearly enjoying what he's doing and is moving through the case. And again, owning that case process. He's driving me through the case. He'd be great with clients, right? He's showing that client ability. Those client hands are there. To me, Scott's a clear hire. No question. and a textbook example of what a great case interview can look like. All right, well that's it for this case. Thank you very much for watching. I hope that you enjoyed it and I hope that you found it useful. If you did, well, why not give a little click on that like button down below. Add in some comments to tell us what you think. There's lots more videos to check out on our platform www.casecoach.com, but also here on our YouTube channel. Enjoy and good luck with your practice.