If you're currently preparing for strategy consulting case interviews and you are feeling a little bit lost, maybe you've done some googling online and you've seen a bunch of different resources talking about all these different kinds of frameworks that you need to memorize. Maybe you have friends who are prepping who think that certain frameworks are better than others, but honestly, you're just not really sure where to even begin, then this video is for you. Hi, if you're new to the channel, my name is Matt. I'm currently working in strategy and ops at Google. Before that, I was a management consultant at BCG and I make these videos because I enjoy it, but I also want to help you out. But with that said, let's get into the video. So, the first thing I want to talk about is what even is a framework? And you probably have a vague sense of what a framework is if you've started down this path of preparing for case interviews. And so, you might think to yourself that a framework is a list of questions or maybe a way to structure a problem solving approach. And both of those are absolutely correct. But I think it's important to understand uh not just what a framework is, but why they're even used in case interviews in the first place. And so the first place that I want to start is why frameworks, right? Because there are all sorts of jobs out there that require people to be problem solvers. But why in consulting specifically do we find that you're being tested on frameworks in pretty much every single case interview? And there's a few reasons here that I want to talk about. It's definitely not all of the reasons, but some of the more important ones. And the first one is structured thinking. You're being tested on whether or not you can think in a organized way. And that might sound simple to you, but you'd be surprised at just how many people have very cluttered thinking and aren't really able to articulate a step-by-step approach to how they would solve a certain problem. And so structured thinking is really really important on the job because as a consultant your job is basically to be like a professional problem solver. And so that is why the framework is so important. Kind of tied to that is problem solving because in order to develop a framework you have to have at least an inkling of an idea of how you want to go about solving the problem or at least getting to the bottom of it and understanding what the underlying cause of an issue is with a business. And so that's the second big bucket. But I would argue that the third and most important reason why frameworks are tested in consulting interviews is because you're basically going to be using frameworks every day on the job. Every single deck that I ever worked on when I was at BCG included at least one framework, if not multiple frameworks. And if you talk to any former consultant or a current consultant, they will tell you that there is always at least one page in the deck probably in the beginning where there's a framework and it lays out the way that we want to evaluate the business or the way that we think about the landscape that this company is operating in and it lays out the key buckets that are most important to consider when trying to get to a recommendation or a solution. You can think of your framework as the foundation of a house. And there's many different ways to build the foundation of the house. But obviously, if you have a more stable, more architecturally sound framework or foundation for your house, then when you actually go and you try to fill in, you know, the windows, the doors, the walls, the roof, everything, then your house is not going to fall apart after you do all that work. And so the same thing is happening here when you try to come up with a framework. There isn't necessarily a right or wrong framework, but there are better ones and there are worse ones. And so now I want to move to the second part here, which is once we've understood why frameworks are being tested, well, what's the problem then, right? It seems pretty straightforward. It's a list of key areas that we want to consider as we try to figure out the problem and then eventually come up with a solution. And the reason that I think most people are scared or at least intimidated by these frameworks is one, like I mentioned before, there's not really a quote unquote right answer. And a lot of the case books that you'll find out there will have a quote unquote recommended solution. But in reality, technically, someone could use a different framework for the exact same case and probably still pass the case. And so the solution in the case book is more just like a suggestion and not necessarily like a black and white yes or no, this is correct kind of answer. And I think that throws a lot of people off because when you're in school and when you're a student, especially if you're in a STEM field or you're taking a lot of quantitative classes, then you're probably used to multiple choice yes or no, true, false, or equation-based mathematical answers where there is a single right answer. But that is just not the case here. And so honestly, I would argue that it's closer to like liberal arts classes where you write an essay. And there's no one right essay that's going to get you a hundred, but there are certainly better essays and worse essays, right? It's more of a spectrum. And I would say that frameworks are similar to that. But as a result, that basically throws off a lot of people and makes people a little bit nervous because they're not really sure if they're getting the quote unquote right answer or not. The second thing is that there's so much information out there online about frameworks. Now, I'm in the consulting prep space and even I will tell you that the space is super saturated and there's a ton of content already out there. If you just do a single Google search, you see a bunch of stuff pop up. And so, the issue is not really that there's a lack of information. It's more that there is too much information and not enough guidance on the 8020 or the 20% of the of the content that actually moves the needle and gets you the offer. And so a lot of people even if they study a lot of frameworks, there's just too many different kinds and they don't know which ones to apply in different situations and they feel just overwhelmed by all this. But this brings me to the heart of this video, which is where I want to try and give you a very simple way to approach frameworks so that you don't feel overwhelmed in the case interview and you can still demonstrate to the interviewer that you know what you're doing and that you can think in a structured way, you're a good problem solver, and that you're considering all of the important things to think about. And so jumping right into it, the first thing that you need to remember is at the end of the day in a case interview scenario where you only have about 90 seconds to come up with a framework, you usually want to have between two to four buckets max. Now, why do I say this? Well, obviously you can't just have one bucket because that's not a framework. So, you need at least two. But anything more than four buckets, in my experience, is too many. It's going to be too complicated. It's probably not going to be me. And you're probably going to spend too much time or run out of time before you can fill out all of the buckets. And so stick to this rule. Two to four buckets max. Ideally, three buckets, but honestly, for certain frameworks, two buckets works just as well. So keep that in mind. Keep it simple. Remember that this is not rocket science. And these case interviews, they're really just a simplified business problem that you're trying to discuss live with another person. Beyond that, don't overthink it. It's not that deep. And so, you want to have your two to four buckets and you want to aim to be mei. Now, when I say aim to be mei, the reason why I'm saying that is because sometimes you just can't be completely mei or you're going to have frameworks where it's not 100% mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. Now, if you don't know what MII means, quick explanation. Mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive is a common term that gets referenced when people are explaining frameworks because you in an ideal world want your framework to be mutually exclusive, which means that the buckets in your framework don't overlap. But also you want all of the buckets to be collectively exhaustive, meaning that you are covering the entire universe of possibilities and you're not forgetting anything that might be important to the case. And so I would argue that being MEI is an important guiding principle when you're developing your frameworks. But don't get so anchored on that one thing that you're like, "Oh shoot, I can't use this framework even though it has really good buckets because it's not completely 100% me." Don't be that person. Now obviously in order to be me there are easier ways to do that than others and I'm going to give you two very simple ways to be me. One is what are known as equation frameworks and the other is what are known as process frameworks. So equation frameworks are exactly what they sound like. The most common equation framework that you've probably heard of is the profitability framework which is when you have two buckets. One of them is revenue and the other one is costs. And so basically you look at everything that's inside of revenue and impacts revenue and you look at things that impact costs. And so you have your price and your quantity here and you have your variable and your fixed costs down here. And so P * Q gives you revenue. Variable plus fixed cost gives you your total costs. Boom. There is your framework. It's MEI. It covers the entire universe of possibilities because everything that you can think of will either influence the revenue or it will influence the costs for the company. Now the other option which I just mentioned are these process frameworks where essentially you are going to create buckets based on the time that it takes to go from say if it's a manufacturing business the time that it takes to go from raw materials all the way to finished product that gets sold to the customer. And so if you're a manufacturing business, then maybe your framework would look like gathering or buying raw materials, bucket one. Then transportation to the factories, bucket two. Then manufacturing inside of the factories, bucket three. And then distribution to retailers, bucket four. And then bucket five would be sell to customers. And customer uses the goods. Boom. See how we went from start all the way to finish. Well, that basically covers the entire life cycle of the business basically producing the good to selling the good to the customer and obviously collecting the cash from that. And process frameworks don't just apply to a manufacturing business. You can basically apply them to anything out there. It doesn't even have to be a business scenario. If someone asked me, hey, what are the key considerations that I need to think about when preparing for a Thanksgiving dinner? Then you can literally make up a framework where you say, "Hey, so step one is gathering the supplies for my Thanksgiving dinner. I need to make sure that I have the shopping list prepared. I need to make sure that I go to the stores before all the turkeys get sold out. I need to make sure that I have planned properly and made sure that uh, you know, I have a guest list, for example, so I know how many people are coming, things like that. And then after the preparation phase, the second bucket is the on the day of the actual Thanksgiving dinner, I need to prepare all the food. I need to get everything ready. Logistically, I need to figure things out. That's bucket two. And then bucket three is actually once the people come to my house, then how do I execute a successful Thanksgiving dinner? Well, maybe I need to make sure that the food comes out on time. Maybe I need to make sure that my guests are entertained. Maybe I need to make sure that I bring the dessert out before people fall asleep from food comas because they ate so much of the Thanksgiving dinner. I don't know. Just making up things here. But you see the point. Basically, these processed firmics are really useful because they can be applied to any situation. And when you do them right, they cover the entire universe of possibilities, making it MEI. So, gave you two very useful ways that you can try to be MEI. Process frameworks and equation frameworks. Now I want to move to this third principle now which is look once you've got your two to four buckets and you've made sure that it's as messy as possible then you want to make sure that you follow the principle of generic buckets but specific bullets. What do I mean by that? Well, generic buckets are like revenue, costs, price, quantity, or things like product, customer, competition, company, things like that. Super high level where you're not being super specific, but where you really want to show the interviewer that you are thinking at maybe a deeper level is you want to be specific in your bullets. And so an example of this if we move over here is say I have a profitability framework and I have revenue and costs right super generic buckets but once I get to the next level price quantity fixed and variable costs I want to be more specific and I don't want to just be like price and quantity are what I want to be looking at in under revenue and fixed and variable costs are what I want to be looking at under costs. You don't want to just stop there because that is just showing the interviewer that you're not being super thoughtful and you're literally just regurgitating probably an an equation that you read in a textbook or that you heard from your friend. And so if for example this case was about I don't know let's just go with a manufacturing business again then we would want to think about questions related to that. And so under price, we could ask ourselves questions like, hey, what is the historical pricing for this product, right? Has it been historically priced less, higher? If so, why? Is it due to inflation? Is it due to other things? This is like super small and I don't know if you can see it, but maybe maybe another question that we could try to be more specific with under price has to do with our competitors. So maybe what is competition pricing things at and where do we sit in relation to our competitors? Are we considered a premium product or are we considered discount or are we kind of just in line with the market? And you want to be really specific. So if this company is in Asia for example, we want to say how does our pricing compare to competitors in Asia? But also how does our pricing compare in general? Not just in Asia but outside of Asia. So maybe compared to South America for example, you want to be asking questions drawing on the context of the case which is going to be given to you in the beginning right when the interviewer reads out the prompt to you and asks you for clarifying questions. You want to make sure that you're really thinking about these things and applying that context to the framework so that you don't have just super generic buckets and super generic subbuckets. You know, it's okay to have generic buckets, but you want more specific contextualized secondary buckets. uh which show that you're actually thinking about the specific company that this case is about. And so continuing along here under quantity, you might want to ask things about volume, right? So you might want to say, you know, how are historical volumes trending for the company? Are they going up? Are they going down? And what are the drivers of that volume? Does it have anything to do with, you know, certain macroeconomic conditions in Asia? or again even what our competitors are doing which may influence volumes, things like that. And then moving down to the cost section, again, you don't just want to say fixed versus variable, but you want to be specific, right? You want to talk about certain fixed costs, like how does our capex look? If we're a manufacturing business, do we own the factories that we're producing out of or are we just leasing them from another party? You really want to show that you're thinking and trying to get to the bottom of this and get really detailed. Now, if you're able to do that and you're able to also tie in your own personal experience or knowledge of things that are happening in the news or things that historically, you know, have happened in business or with certain companies in that industry, then that's even better because a way to differentiate yourself with the framework section is to not just talk in a theoretical sense about what you would look at in the company, but to tie it to, oh yeah, I know that from my knowledge of the news, news that currently inflation in Asia is really high and so I would anticipate that prices would also be trending up compared to historical. Now I'm just making all this up but you get the idea. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to show the interviewer that I didn't just read this revenue and cost framework from a textbook or I didn't just get it from some consulting blog and blindly apply it to this case. No, I took that and I tried to adapt it specifically to this case. And if you can do that, then honestly, you're already 90% of the way there. Because again, there is no right or wrong framework to use in a case. There are easier ones and better ones that you can use. But nine times out of 10, what I find is for most cases, you can apply like a small set of two to three frameworks to 90% of cases, especially if they're all related to forprofit businesses. And so another great example is the CPCC framework or sometimes you'll see the three C's framework but essentially this framework is where you look at the customer you look at the product you look at the company itself and then you look at the competition. Now some of you might be looking at this and being like is this actually MEI? And I would argue that this framework is probably not as clearly NEI as the one above it. However, it's also a very effective framework that works with 90% of cases because it often covers the key areas that matter for a for-profit business. For example, who their customer is for any business. That is one of the most important things to think about. What the product is for any business. Again, that is their bread and butter. You have to understand their product to understand the business. understanding the company itself. I think this points more towards their own capabilities and the state of the company right now. This just helps us to make sure that we're not forgetting anything else about the company because even though the product and the customer are critically important, understanding the company itself and its current situation is critical. And then finally, competition in consulting. This is one of the most important things that you will look at as a consultant when you're uh on a project and you're trying to evaluate your client's position in the market. You're going to look at who the competition is and you're going to try to understand the market that the company operates in, how competitive that market is and whether or not there's room for growth there. And so you can see that even though this framework is not clearly MEI because it's not a process framework and it's not a equation framework, it's still a really good framework to bring to an interview. And again, if you make the sub bullets really specific and contextualize it, then I guarantee that the interviewer will be quite happy with this framework just as much as the other one. And so don't get tied up on this idea that you have to be 100% Macy. Use it as a guiding principle, not as a hard rule. What's more important here is that you show the interviewer that you are thinking thoughtfully about this framework. You know what the important things to consider are you're bringing in outside knowledge from your own experience or from what you've seen before into this framework so that it's unique. And again, it's not going to be the exact same as the last guy or girl who maybe just ripped the framework out of Victor Chang's book and is just applying the exact same buckets to the case. Because remember, these interviewers, they're probably casing multiple people every day. And over the course of a few weeks, they're going to very quickly see patterns between different people that are using the frame same frameworks. And a lot of people are using the same prep materials. though realistically they're going to end up using the same frameworks as well. And the way that you make it unique to you though is that you show them your thoughtful through the specificity of your bullets and the individual nuggets and bits of information that you bring in from your own experience and own learnings. Now, I've said a lot about why frameworks matter, why people are scared of them, how you can honestly just cut through the noise and create frameworks that your interviewer is actually going to be happy with. And then I've given you a few examples. But the last thing I want to talk about here is that the delivery of your framework is also very, very important. It's not just about the content that you have in your framework. It's also about once you've taken your 90 seconds or maybe your two minutes to come up with your different buckets, how do you deliver it in the interview scenario? And the best way to do it is you want to be concise and you want to be structured. Now, how do you do that? Well, you basically start by saying something like, "Okay, awesome. So, I've had some time to think about the key considerations uh to this case." And broadly speaking, there are four main buckets that I would want to learn a little bit more about in order to understand a little bit better what might be the root cause of the problem. And then eventually how we might be able to come up with a solution to the case. The first is the company, the second is the competition, the third is the product, and the fourth is the customer. Now with the first bucket, I'd be most interested in X, Y, and Z. And then our second bucket X, Y, and Z. third, fourth, repeat. You get the idea. The goal here is again, don't ramble, but speak in a way that shows that you're being structured and makes it clear to the interviewer what the different buckets you want to look into are. And practically speaking, how you can prepare to do this well is I recommend leading up to the case, say you have your interview in a couple weeks. Well, every day leading up to your interview, you should do what is known as case starts. And you should do one case start every day. This is when you open up a case book and you flip to a random case. And at the beginning of your day, ideally, when your brain is fresh, you take 10 to 15 minutes to read the case prompt. And then you time yourself. You spend a minute, two minutes coming up with a framework. And then you deliver the framework. and then you stop. You don't do the rest of the case. So, you only spend about 10 to 15 minutes every day preparing your frameworks. But if you do this every day, soon you'll get really, really good at coming up with frameworks with time pressure. And you'll also get really good at delivering the frameworks as well. Now, don't forget, you should definitely try to record yourself when you do deliver the framework because that is going to give you the fastest feedback when it comes to how you're actually presenting yourself in the interview. And trust me, if you're cringing when you film yourself and you listen back and you hear how your voice sounds and maybe you don't like how you speak, then that's actually a good thing because you need that feedback because think about it, a stranger is going to see that video or essentially they're going to see you in person if you're doing an in-person interview and that is what they're going to hear. And so you want to make sure that you're recording yourself to get that feedback, but also you want to get feedback on the content of the framework itself. And so this is where if you have friends or if you have mentors or people that you'veorked with who are consultants that can help you and give you feedback on your framework, that'll be really really critically important. But if you don't have that, then honestly, you can even use something like chat GPT and throw the framework in there and ask it if the framework is structured or how it might structure the framework better. Because what I found is that some of these AI tools are actually quite useful for structuring ambiguous problems. And so honestly, if you do everything that I've just talked about today and you stick to it for more than just a couple days, then you're going to find that you'll improve so much quicker at your frameworks and you're not going to feel so overwhelmed when you go into a case interview and you're not really sure if you have the right answer or not. With that being said, that's all I got for you guys. If you have any questions, drop them below and I will see you in the next one. Peace.